| [Home Page](https://yicenma.github.io/tswd-portfolio) | [Visualizing Debt](visualizing-government-debt) | [Critique by Design](critique-by-design) | [Final project I](final-project-part-one) | [Final project II](final-project-part-two) | [Final project III](final-project-part-three) |

#  Visualizing Government Debt

## Part 1: Working with web-based visualization tools and data
### General Government Debt Bar Chart (2021)
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6XSx" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6XSx" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2021</a></iframe>


## Part 2: Working with Flourish
### General Government Debt Grid of Line Charts 

I used the flourish.studio to visualize the country debt’s data following the instructions. I visualized it by a grid of sparklines charts, in which each country is divided into one-line charts and tracks the debt-to-GDP ratio across time. Some countries' line does not start from 1995, because there is no available data in that time period. I added an intuitive title, so the audience can easily understand the graphs representing the years of the data. I also attached the source at the end.

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/12572192"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

### Take a Look on Debt issue in geographical in the World Map

This is the visualization of the government debt on the world map. I used the darker red color to represent the heavier debt issue the government have.

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-map" data-src="visualisation/12572460"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

### Japan Debt Threat

To narrow down the debt issue, I focused on the Japan's government debt, which is the highest in the given data. (Due to there is no provided key for Tableau and my free trail was used up last semaster, I still use Flourish to generate more practice.)

<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/12596946"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## Visualization Methods Discussion

The first graph used a bar chart to represent the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development(OECD) general government debt’s countries data in 2021. The chart is created by OECD itself visualization tool. Each bar’s height represents the specific country’s Debt-to-GDP ratio in 2021. It is effective to represent the data of each discrete category, especially for the data containing many categories (40+ in this case), because it is easier to capture the discrete bar individually with the bar’s space. Also, it is more efficient by sorted the bars in ascending/descending order. It could be easier to capture the top highest/lowest ratio countries’ situation by focusing on two ends of bars in the charts. Generally, it is a simple chart and is good to represent the data. However, the bar chart will be a mess if we want to track and compare the country’s trend each year because there will be hundreds of bars in the graph(~30+ bars per country).

The rest of the charts are generated by flourish. studio, in which the representation is more customized than the first one.

The second visualization’s data covered each from 1995 to 2021 of each country. It covers more data information compared with the first one. The grid of line charts is effective in capturing the historical trend of each country. It divided each individual category into one specific line chart. However, it is hard to compare with other grids of line charts and to capture the pattern, because each grid of a line chart is small and it is hard to track the exact value of a specific year, except use the mouse to point it. Each chart is in a grid position making the y-axis measurement hard to compare as well. Also, it doesn’t have any focus and the audience are easier to get distracted, because the audience’s eye have to fluctuating around and try to catch every piece of data. 

The third visualization uses the same data as the first graph (2021 country data). It applies the countries to the real-world map and utilizes the geographic position to illustrate the distribution of the debt situation. Each polygon represents one country shape. It is effective in capturing the regional trend which other forms of the chart cannot. I also add the color legend on the side and choose red as the heavy debt issue (high debt-to-GDP ratio). It is an interactive visualization. The audience can point to the region or zoom in and out to see the ratio value. Other countries without data are represented by a transparent outline which will not distract the audience. However, it is hard to find the exact ratio number of each country compared with the line/bar chart, because it is time-consuming to point to each country region.

The fourth visualization is merging the second graph’s data into one line chart with multiple historical countries’ ratios. It is effective in narrowing down one specific focus by pointing out the debt issue of Japan. I only highlight three countries’ lines with contrasting colors. Red color for Japan has to the severe debt issue. The other two countries are the USA and Russia, the leader of the world in blue and green. Thus, compared with those two super-power countries, it will make Japan’s issue more severe. The contrasting use of colors and the historical ratio trend will highlight the heavy issue of Japan - the recession threat. For the rest of the counties, I leave in grey as the background information and reference for complementary use.



